# Emphasize Work-Integrated Learning Programs
Industry partners should increase collaboration with educational and government institutions to develop and fund work-integrated learning programs (e.g. internships). These programs ensure upcoming talent is equipped with the skills needed in the industry today and ease the transition of new employees into companies.

Industry partners should increase collaboration with educational and government institutions to **develop and fund work-integrated learning programs** (e.g. internships). These programs ensure upcoming talent is equipped with the skills needed in the industry today, and ease the transition of new employees into companies. Through first-hand experiences, talent can assess the skills needed to succeed on the job while still in a position to easily overcome the skill gaps they identify, all without losing out on productive working time. Organizations can begin developing meaningful relationships with junior or transitioning talent while participants ground their formal skills education in real-life applications.

The global demand for digital skills has left talent pools relatively shallow14. Organizations that once might have relied on simply hiring more talent to meet demand are now forced to plan far ahead into the future. This presents a greater challenge for organizations; how can they proactively develop a talent strategy for digital skills that might not even exist yet? With the pace of digital innovation only increasing, this is a reality that must be considered. A potential answer to this question can be found in developing and planning around a strong talent pipeline. By creating lasting relationships with future candidates and the educational institutions they affiliate with, companies can stay aligned with the skills of the future and begin to bring in more of it to their organizations to address any skill gaps.

From the individual’s perspective, with the growth of micro-credentials and alternative means of developing digital skills outside of traditional educational programs, it is crucial to understand what skills employers demand in the real day-to-day of desired roles. While organizations begin to mature digitally there still may be a disconnect between the skills they believe they need from a high-level and the skills really needed to succeed in the role. This is made clear by 85% of workers thinking they need to develop new digital skills to remain relevant at work8. To truly understand what skills these are, individuals can benefit from completing the work first-hand. Additionally, these opportunities allow for the pipeline itself to gain ecosystem strength. Individuals can begin to build their professional networks while organizations build relationships with and assess the future workforce. These types of mutually beneficial programs can greatly fortify local talent ecosystems.

A final driver of why work-integrated learning programs are important is the need for organizations to be proactive in their acquisition and development of digital skills. As mentioned above, organizations can no longer take a passive approach to their digital talent strategy. Programs connecting organizations to talent assist them in developing their pipeline, not just to bring in more employees but to bring in employees with the right skills needed for the future.

# Objectives
The development of work-integrated learning programs has the potential to yield various benefits and returns to the organization itself, individuals (interns) and the entire ecosystem. The straightforward impact of a fresh set of hands within a company cannot be overlooked. Interns can provide work output beyond what a company may achieve with their existing workforce. Additionally, from a longer-term focus, **internship programs enable a deeper relationship between organizations and prospective talent.** These early relationships allow organizations to assess talent for digital competencies. If skill gaps are identified, interns are still in a learning environment and can develop these in-demand skills more easily than if they were already in the workforce, when they would need to dedicate siloed time for upskilling and training. This early assessment and “pulse check” of the talent pipeline highlights how work-integrated learning programs not only create a process for hiring new talent but can potentially smooth the transition of new hires into the workforce and efficiently meet skill demands.

A unique objective to work-integrated learning programs is the ability for an organization’s employees to learn from up-and-coming talent. This is referred to as “reverse mentorship” where it is not only interns learning from the experience of employees but employees also learning from the next wave of digital talent.

**Work-integrated learning programs pose an opportunity for individuals to explore emerging areas of interest.** The more diverse talent that finds an interest in digital skills and the motivation to develop digital competencies, the stronger the ecosystem will be. There are many benefits stemming from the efficacy of learning while working and these programs provide students with the opportunity to ground their formal education in real-world applications.


