# Leverage Immersive Learning
The increasing demand for upskilling of digital talent is directly linked to the pace of digital innovation. As technologies advance and organizations become more reliant on digital innovations, the demand for complementary digital skills continues to grow. In order to satisfy these demands, organizations are faced with two options, develop talent internally or acquire talent that already has these skills.

Harness immersive learning experiences to train, teach and upskill your workforce. Innovative technologies like extended reality (XR) and artificial intelligence (AI) have the potential to break down traditionally isolated work and learning silos. Immersive Learning methods have advanced beyond just technical skills and now include capabilities for human skills such as presentation delivery. These approaches can be incorporated into both formal and informal skill development programs, targeting holistic digital skill building across an organization.

# Objectives
Immersive Learning has been proven to provide **greater accuracy and efficiency** with participants. A study conducted of training using virtual reality (VR) showed that the group that trained using VR completed their tasks with 12% higher accuracy in 17% faster time18 compared to traditional learning methods. This highlights the efficacy of leveraging intelligent technologies in terms of efficiency, however participants in the VR training also reported to have a more pleasant time. If individuals can be motivated to upskill and organizations can provide this type of technology for learning, a strong case can be made for incorporating this into any learning strategy.

Intelligent learning technologies also enable organizations to **upskill their workforce without the lost productivity from traditional learning.** In the past, organizations and their workforces had to dedicate time for learning and upskilling that would take away from regular work productivity time. This siloed approach led to decreased incentives for learning no matter how great the demand for skills might be. Using intelligent technologies, individuals can now receive “in the moment” learning opportunities. This shortened feedback loop creates an increasingly iterative approach to upskilling. With a better understanding for the skills they might need, individuals may be empowered to develop digital skills sooner and begin to close any gaps with the support of their organization.

An additional benefit to incorporating intelligent technologies into learning strategies is the ability to **deliver more personalized learning opportunities** for employees. Using AI, organizations can identify which learning and targeted skills an employee needs and support their path to development. This provides increased efficiency from the traditional blanket learning approach where employees all might come from different foundational starting points. The path forwarded can be accomplished by thinking about outcomes to determine where an intervention may be required.

# Activities
* **Assess Technology Options** Not every learning technology is appropriate for an organization. A single learning technology is not suitable for the ecosystem. For each technology, the needs and goals of the consumer should be identified. From here, the best supplier should help fill this gap. Rooting these decisions in a talent strategy will develop consistency and ensure learning is relevant to a workforce.
* **Identify Learning Needs** Following the assessment of potential technologies to be leveraged for learning, it is crucial to identify what type of learning and skill development is needed. Across technical and human skills, organizations should pinpoint what skill gaps are present and what that best learning method to address them. 
* **Connect Entire Ecosystem** To remain current with innovative learning technology, it is necessary to develop meaningful partnerships with technology providers. Along with technology partners, a shared understanding of best practices and lessons learned across the organization’s ecosystem can accelerate and improve the adoption of these learning approaches.
* **Foster a Learning Culture** The development of intelligent learning technology capabilities must be supported by an organizational culture open to learning. Immersive technologies are meant to bring learning to life in a real-world environment to make the experience more tangible. Individuals and organizations must be open to new ways of learning for these initiatives to succeed. 

# Stakeholders
* **Organizational Talent Teams** Using intelligent technologies, organizational talent teams can improve employee learning experiences.
* **Ecosystem Talent Pipeline** The ecosystem talent pipeline will become larger from adopting intelligent technologies. The larger talent pool will help decrease the current digital employment gap.
* **Technology Partners** The intelligent technologies that third-party companies make will create a more immersive and efficient learning experience.
* **Talent-Seeking Organizations** Organizations can provide feedback to technology partners and academic institutions about the requirements for new intelligent technology.
* **Learning Instituions** Learning institutions can work with technology partners to bring a more immersive learning experience into the classroom.

# Considerations
* **Learning Curve** There is an inherent learning curve when it comes to learning with intelligent technologies. Based off age, experience, education and many other factors, individuals will have different levels of comfort with technology. To ensure all can benefit from this effective style of learning, individual learning preferences and custom tactics must be considered and planned for. 
* **Investment Required** Although technology has become increasingly accessible, there is still a significant level of investment required to incorporate these technologies into organizational learning programs. Following the trends highlighted above, leadership may be reluctant to make such large investments even in the face of digital skill gaps. Along with the initial investment comes the need to iteratively improve and update learning materials. The learning is only as good as the content. 
* **Data Privacy and Preferences** Leveraging intelligent learning technologies comes with many different considerations, one of them being the data privacy of employees. In order to personalize learning and learning experiences, organizations must collect certain data points on their employees. Although there are clear benefits, this may pose a risk to organizations. When it comes to data privacy it is always best to remain as transparent as possible. 

# Example
The School for Advanced Digital Technology (SADT) is a hub for technology learning. SADT is part of the Southern Alberta Institute of Technology located in Calgary. The institution runs boot camps to help students develop technology-related skills. 

Starting in May 2021, SADT will offer 12-week product management and virtual reality boot camps. Students will spend the first six weeks in their respective streams. Product Managers will learn about agile, scrum, and managing product development. The Virtual Reality Bootcamp focuses on building a tangible product, emphasizing skills such as managing client specs, storyboarding, and design. The last six weeks will see the two streams come together to apply their learnings to a real business problem. SADT has partnered with the SAIT School of Construction to co-create and co-deliver two projects for the students to work on. Similar to the working world, students will be divided into product teams consisting of VR developers and product managers to tackle one of the problems.

SADT facilitates the content based on what industry demands require. They have conversations with experts in the ecosystem to discover what needs to be taught to prepare students for the future. SADT has also joined forces with industry leaders in VR and PM to bring students a one-of-a-kind learning experience. For the VR boot camp, this includes Red Iron Labs, Inception U and Exergy Solutions. SADT worked with both groups to iterate on the curriculum, hardware and software that students will be engaging with. On the product management side, Product Calgary will be involved in student learning and even help fund some of the student tuition. Course content will also be delivered by Red Iron Labs. These partnerships are a representation of academic institutions breaking the barrier between education and employment. 



